---
sectionid: C01S05
sectionclass: h2
title: Dice
number: 1500
is-parent: no
parent-id: Chapter01
---

The Adventurer Conqueror King System primarily uses six different kinds of dice to determine the results of actions and situations, but these same dice might be used to generate numbers of varying ranges. These different dice and the terms employed to use and describe them are detailed below.

The 20 sided die, or d20, is one of the most important dice in the game: it is used to resolve all attack and saving throws.  As explained later, when making a throw, the die is rolled, and modifiers are then added or subtracted. If the total result equals or exceeds an assigned value, the roll is a success; otherwise it has failed.

The 10 sided die, or d10, is used to generate numbers from 1 to 10; it is numbered 0 to 9, but a roll of 0 is counted as 10.  A pair of d10s are also used together to generate numbers from 1 to 100, where a roll of 00 is counted as 100.  The two dice should be different colors, and the player must declare which die is the tens digit and which die is the ones digit before rolling them!    Rolling two d10s this way is called a percentile roll, or d100.

The 4 sided die, or d4, is a special case.  It is not so much rolled as "flipped," and the number which is upright is the result of the roll.

The other dice normally used have 6, 8, and 12 sides, and are called d6, d8, and d12.  d6s may be made with either numbers or pips; it makes no difference which sort you choose.

When multiple dice are to be rolled and added together, it is noted in the text like this: 2d6 (roll two d6 dice and add them together), or 3d4 (roll three d4 dice and add them together).  A modifier may be noted as a "plus" value, such as 2d8+2 (roll two d8 dice and add them together, then add two to the total).


| Notation | Meaning
| -------: | :------
|       d2 | A result of 1 to 2 is obtained by rolling 1d6. A result of 1-3 = 1, and 4-6 = 2.
|       d3 | A result of 1 to 3 is obtained by rolling 1d6. A result of 1-2 = 1, 3-4 = 2, and 5-6 = 3.
|       d4 | Four sided die
|       d6 | Six sided die
|       d8 | Eight sided die
|      d10 | Ten sided die, a "0" indicates a result of 10
|      d12 | Twelve sided die
|      d20 | Twenty sided die
|     d100 | Percentile dice (a number between 1 and 100 is generated by rolling two different ten-sided dice. One, designated before rolling, is the tens digit. The other is the ones digit. Two 0s represent 100.

